README.md, before:

# AmpliFi

![AmpliFi](public/branding/amplifi-banner.png)

AmpliFi is a creator growth protocol for Solana that turns organic social engagement into rewards.

Creators launch a token, start campaigns, and fund reward pools. Holders (raiders) connect X, participate, and claim payouts. The app includes admin tooling for launch operations and a vanity mint worker for fast AMP-suffix launches.

![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14.2-black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.4-blue)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node-%3E%3D%2020.18-3c873a)
![TailwindCSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-3.x-06b6d4)
![Solana](https://img.shields.io/badge/Solana-mainnet--beta-14f195)

## Table of contents

- [Product](#product)
- [Key routes](#key-routes)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Repo structure](#repo-structure)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
- [Background workers](#background-workers)
- [Admin tools](#admin-tools)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Cron jobs](#cron-jobs)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Security and custody](#security-and-custody)
- [Operations](#operations)

## Product

- **Token launch (Pump.fun)**
  - Guided launch flow with optional AMP vanity suffix.
  - Uses server-side signing (Privy) plus Solana RPC submission.
- **Campaigns**
  - Configure tracking handles/hashtags and epoch-based reward settlement.
  - Rewards can be viewed in dashboards and leaderboards.
- **Raider (holder) dashboard**
  - Connect wallet + verify X account.
  - View claimable rewards and claim via on-chain transactions.
- **Creator dashboard**
  - View launches/projects.
  - Claim creator-side rewards supported by the current integration.
- **Admin operations**
  - Vanity mint pool status + top-up triggers.
  - Clear launch history for an admin wallet (for test iteration).

Note: Bags UI is currently hidden/disabled.

## Key routes

- **Landing**: `/`
- **Launch**: `/launch`
- **Creator dashboard**: `/creator`
- **Raider dashboard**: `/holder`
- **Campaigns**: `/campaigns`
- **Leaderboards**: `/leaderboard`
- **Admin**: `/admin`

## Architecture

High level flow:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  U[Wallet + X user] -->|Next.js UI| WEB[app/*]
  WEB --> API[Next.js API routes]
  API --> DB[(Postgres / Supabase)]
  API --> RPC[Solana RPC]
  API --> PRIVY[Privy server wallets]
  API --> PUMPPORTAL[PumpPortal: build tx]
  API --> XAPI[X API v2]
```

Data storage:

- Campaign state and engagement accounting live in Postgres via Supabase migrations in `supabase/migrations/`.
- Launch operations and vanity mint pool also use Postgres.

## Tech stack

- **Web**: Next.js 14 (App Router), React 18, TypeScript
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS
- **Solana**: `@solana/web3.js`, Solana Wallet Adapter
- **Server wallet signing**: Privy server wallets
- **Database**: Postgres (Supabase recommended)
- **Media**: Remotion (optional scripts)

## Repo structure

- `app/`
  - Next.js App Router pages and API routes
- `app/lib/`
  - Core protocol and integration logic
- `supabase/migrations/`
  - Postgres schema for campaigns, epochs, engagement, and payouts
- `workers/`
  - Background workers (vanity mint pool)
- `public/`
  - Static assets (branding, token images)

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js `>= 20.18.0`
- Postgres database (Supabase recommended)
- A reliable Solana RPC (use separate server vs browser keys in production)

### Install

```bash
npm install
```

### Common scripts

```bash
npm run dev
npm run build
npm run start
npm run lint
npm run vanity-worker
```

### Configure environment

Create `.env.local` at the repo root:

Windows (PowerShell):

```bash
copy .env.example .env.local
```

macOS/Linux:

```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

Then fill in values (see [Environment variables](#environment-variables)).

### Database migrations

Migrations live in `supabase/migrations/`.

Apply them using one of these approaches:

- **Supabase Dashboard**
  - Open SQL Editor and run the migrations in order.
- **psql (direct connection)**
  - Run each file in order:

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0011_amplifi_init.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0012_twitter_oauth.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0013_amplifi_profiles_payouts.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0014_twitter_rate_limits.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0015_manual_lockup.sql
```

### Run the app

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open http://localhost:3000

## Environment variables

The canonical list is in `.env.example`. This section summarizes the important groups.

Tip: the app supports comma separated RPC lists for fallback.

### Browser (NEXT_PUBLIC_*)

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_CLUSTER` (recommended: `mainnet-beta`)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_RPC_URLS` (recommended) or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_RPC_URL` (optional)
  - Use a browser safe RPC key with allowed origins set for your domains.

### Server (Next.js API routes)

#### Required for most environments

- `DATABASE_URL`
- `SOLANA_RPC_URLS` (recommended) or `SOLANA_RPC_URL`
- `ADMIN_WALLET_PUBKEYS`

#### Strongly recommended in production

- `APP_ORIGIN` (admin endpoints enforce Origin checking in production)
- `ESCROW_DB_SECRET` (required in production, encrypts escrow and vanity secrets at rest)

### Required for Pump.fun launch signing

- `PRIVY_APP_ID`
- `PRIVY_APP_SECRET`
- `PRIVY_AUTHORIZATION_PRIVATE_KEY` (or `PRIVY_AUTHORIZATION_PRIVATE_KEYS` comma separated)

### Supabase Storage (uploads)

- `SUPABASE_URL` (or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`)
- `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
- `SUPABASE_PROJECT_ASSETS_BUCKET` (optional, defaults to `project-assets`)
- `SUPABASE_AVATAR_BUCKET` (optional, defaults to `avatars`)

### Cron + automated operations

- `CRON_SECRET` (required to call cron endpoints)
- `ESCROW_FEE_PAYER_SECRET_KEY` (recommended)
  - Used to sponsor transaction fees for fee claims and sweeps.
- Optional tuning
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_MAX_RUN_MS`
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_SWEEP_LIMIT`
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_CONFIRM_TIMEOUT_MS`
  - `CTS_CREATOR_FEE_SWEEP_KEEP_LAMPORTS`

### Recommended for production observability and stability

- `AUDIT_WEBHOOK_URL` (optional alerting)
- `PG_POOL_MAX`, `PG_POOL_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT_MS`, `PG_POOL_IDLE_TIMEOUT_MS` (if tuning connections)

### X integration

- `TWITTER_CLIENT_ID`
- `TWITTER_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `TWITTER_CALLBACK_URL`
- `TWITTER_BEARER_TOKEN` (optional)

### Vanity mint pool

- `VANITY_WORKER_SUFFIX` (must be `AMP`)
- `VANITY_WORKER_MIN_AVAILABLE` (default: 10)
- `VANITY_WORKER_TARGET_AVAILABLE` (default: 50)
- `VANITY_WORKER_IDLE_SLEEP_MS` (default: 30000)

## Background workers

### Vanity mint worker

This worker keeps a pool of AMP-suffix mint keypairs topped up in Postgres so launches do not block on vanity generation.

```bash
npm run vanity-worker
```

## Admin tools

Admin UI: `/admin`

- **Admin login**
  - Connect wallet
  - Sign once to create an admin session cookie
- **Vanity mint pool**
  - View pool size and trigger top-ups
- **Clear launch history**
  - Archives the current wallet's managed launch records for test iteration

## Deployment

Recommended: deploy on Vercel.

- Set all required env vars in the Vercel project settings.

Netlify is also supported via `netlify.toml`.

- Build: `npm run build`
- Start: `npm run start`

You can also deploy to Vercel or any Node hosting that supports Next.js.

## Cron jobs

### Pump.fun creator fee sweep

Endpoint:

- `GET /api/cron/pumpfun-fee-sweep`
- `POST /api/cron/pumpfun-fee-sweep`

Auth:

- Header `x-cron-secret: $CRON_SECRET`, or
- Header `authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET`

Vercel schedule is configured in `vercel.json`.

You can run this endpoint on any scheduler (for example cronjobs.org) as long as it includes the correct `CRON_SECRET` header.

## Troubleshooting

### Campaign escrow shows zero balance but has funds (WSOL)

**Important**: Campaign escrow wallets may hold funds as WSOL (Wrapped SOL) instead of native SOL. This can happen when:
- PumpPortal trades return WSOL
- Other DeFi integrations wrap SOL automatically

If the dashboard shows zero escrow balance but Solscan shows WSOL tokens in the escrow wallet, the funds are there - they are just wrapped. The creator dashboard now includes WSOL balance when calculating escrow totals. To verify:
1. Check the escrow wallet on Solscan under the "Tokens" tab
2. Look for WSOL (mint: `So11111111111111111111111111111111111111112`)

### Launch fails

Common causes:

- Privy misconfiguration (missing auth key)
- RPC instability or rate limiting
- PumpPortal request failures
- Vanity pool is low (AMP mints depleted)

### Admin endpoints return 403

- Check `APP_ORIGIN` in production.
- Ensure requests originate from the correct site origin.

### Database errors

- Verify `DATABASE_URL`.
- Ensure migrations are applied.

## Security and custody

- Client wallets sign user actions (wallet adapter).
- Privy server wallets are used for specific server-side signing flows.
- Secrets must never be committed. Use `.env.local` and your hosting provider's secret store.

## Operations

See `RUNBOOK.md` for operational guidance (secrets, monitoring, incident response).

Commit message:

docs: clarify Pump.fun fee payment types (SOL pre-bonding, WSOL post-bonding)

README.md, after:

# AmpliFi

![AmpliFi](public/branding/amplifi-banner.png)

AmpliFi is a creator growth protocol for Solana that turns organic social engagement into rewards.

Creators launch a token, start campaigns, and fund reward pools. Holders (raiders) connect X, participate, and claim payouts. The app includes admin tooling for launch operations and a vanity mint worker for fast AMP-suffix launches.

![Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-14.2-black)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.4-blue)
![Node](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node-%3E%3D%2020.18-3c873a)
![TailwindCSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/TailwindCSS-3.x-06b6d4)
![Solana](https://img.shields.io/badge/Solana-mainnet--beta-14f195)

## Table of contents

- [Product](#product)
- [Key routes](#key-routes)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Tech stack](#tech-stack)
- [Repo structure](#repo-structure)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
- [Background workers](#background-workers)
- [Admin tools](#admin-tools)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Cron jobs](#cron-jobs)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Security and custody](#security-and-custody)
- [Operations](#operations)

## Product

- **Token launch (Pump.fun)**
  - Guided launch flow with optional AMP vanity suffix.
  - Uses server-side signing (Privy) plus Solana RPC submission.
- **Campaigns**
  - Configure tracking handles/hashtags and epoch-based reward settlement.
  - Rewards can be viewed in dashboards and leaderboards.
- **Raider (holder) dashboard**
  - Connect wallet + verify X account.
  - View claimable rewards and claim via on-chain transactions.
- **Creator dashboard**
  - View launches/projects.
  - Claim creator-side rewards supported by the current integration.
- **Admin operations**
  - Vanity mint pool status + top-up triggers.
  - Clear launch history for an admin wallet (for test iteration).

Note: Bags UI is currently hidden/disabled.

## Key routes

- **Landing**: `/`
- **Launch**: `/launch`
- **Creator dashboard**: `/creator`
- **Raider dashboard**: `/holder`
- **Campaigns**: `/campaigns`
- **Leaderboards**: `/leaderboard`
- **Admin**: `/admin`

## Architecture

High level flow:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  U[Wallet + X user] -->|Next.js UI| WEB[app/*]
  WEB --> API[Next.js API routes]
  API --> DB[(Postgres / Supabase)]
  API --> RPC[Solana RPC]
  API --> PRIVY[Privy server wallets]
  API --> PUMPPORTAL[PumpPortal: build tx]
  API --> XAPI[X API v2]
```

Data storage:

- Campaign state and engagement accounting live in Postgres via Supabase migrations in `supabase/migrations/`.
- Launch operations and vanity mint pool also use Postgres.

## Tech stack

- **Web**: Next.js 14 (App Router), React 18, TypeScript
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS
- **Solana**: `@solana/web3.js`, Solana Wallet Adapter
- **Server wallet signing**: Privy server wallets
- **Database**: Postgres (Supabase recommended)
- **Media**: Remotion (optional scripts)

## Repo structure

- `app/`
  - Next.js App Router pages and API routes
- `app/lib/`
  - Core protocol and integration logic
- `supabase/migrations/`
  - Postgres schema for campaigns, epochs, engagement, and payouts
- `workers/`
  - Background workers (vanity mint pool)
- `public/`
  - Static assets (branding, token images)

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js `>= 20.18.0`
- Postgres database (Supabase recommended)
- A reliable Solana RPC (use separate server vs browser keys in production)

### Install

```bash
npm install
```

### Common scripts

```bash
npm run dev
npm run build
npm run start
npm run lint
npm run vanity-worker
```

### Configure environment

Create `.env.local` at the repo root:

Windows (PowerShell):

```bash
copy .env.example .env.local
```

macOS/Linux:

```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

Then fill in values (see [Environment variables](#environment-variables)).

### Database migrations

Migrations live in `supabase/migrations/`.

Apply them using one of these approaches:

- **Supabase Dashboard**
  - Open SQL Editor and run the migrations in order.
- **psql (direct connection)**
  - Run each file in order:

```bash
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0011_amplifi_init.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0012_twitter_oauth.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0013_amplifi_profiles_payouts.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0014_twitter_rate_limits.sql
psql "$DATABASE_URL" -f supabase/migrations/0015_manual_lockup.sql
```

### Run the app

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open http://localhost:3000

## Environment variables

The canonical list is in `.env.example`. This section summarizes the important groups.

Tip: the app supports comma separated RPC lists for fallback.

### Browser (NEXT_PUBLIC_*)

- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_CLUSTER` (recommended: `mainnet-beta`)
- `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_RPC_URLS` (recommended) or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SOLANA_RPC_URL` (optional)
  - Use a browser safe RPC key with allowed origins set for your domains.

### Server (Next.js API routes)

#### Required for most environments

- `DATABASE_URL`
- `SOLANA_RPC_URLS` (recommended) or `SOLANA_RPC_URL`
- `ADMIN_WALLET_PUBKEYS`

#### Strongly recommended in production

- `APP_ORIGIN` (admin endpoints enforce Origin checking in production)
- `ESCROW_DB_SECRET` (required in production, encrypts escrow and vanity secrets at rest)

### Required for Pump.fun launch signing

- `PRIVY_APP_ID`
- `PRIVY_APP_SECRET`
- `PRIVY_AUTHORIZATION_PRIVATE_KEY` (or `PRIVY_AUTHORIZATION_PRIVATE_KEYS` comma separated)

### Supabase Storage (uploads)

- `SUPABASE_URL` (or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`)
- `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
- `SUPABASE_PROJECT_ASSETS_BUCKET` (optional, defaults to `project-assets`)
- `SUPABASE_AVATAR_BUCKET` (optional, defaults to `avatars`)

### Cron + automated operations

- `CRON_SECRET` (required to call cron endpoints)
- `ESCROW_FEE_PAYER_SECRET_KEY` (recommended)
  - Used to sponsor transaction fees for fee claims and sweeps.
- Optional tuning
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_MAX_RUN_MS`
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_SWEEP_LIMIT`
  - `CRON_PUMPFUN_CONFIRM_TIMEOUT_MS`
  - `CTS_CREATOR_FEE_SWEEP_KEEP_LAMPORTS`

### Recommended for production observability and stability

- `AUDIT_WEBHOOK_URL` (optional alerting)
- `PG_POOL_MAX`, `PG_POOL_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT_MS`, `PG_POOL_IDLE_TIMEOUT_MS` (if tuning connections)

### X integration

- `TWITTER_CLIENT_ID`
- `TWITTER_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `TWITTER_CALLBACK_URL`
- `TWITTER_BEARER_TOKEN` (optional)

### Vanity mint pool

- `VANITY_WORKER_SUFFIX` (must be `AMP`)
- `VANITY_WORKER_MIN_AVAILABLE` (default: 10)
- `VANITY_WORKER_TARGET_AVAILABLE` (default: 50)
- `VANITY_WORKER_IDLE_SLEEP_MS` (default: 30000)

## Background workers

### Vanity mint worker

This worker keeps a pool of AMP-suffix mint keypairs topped up in Postgres so launches do not block on vanity generation.

```bash
npm run vanity-worker
```

## Admin tools

Admin UI: `/admin`

- **Admin login**
  - Connect wallet
  - Sign once to create an admin session cookie
- **Vanity mint pool**
  - View pool size and trigger top-ups
- **Clear launch history**
  - Archives the current wallet's managed launch records for test iteration

## Deployment

Recommended: deploy on Vercel.

- Set all required env vars in the Vercel project settings.

Netlify is also supported via `netlify.toml`.

- Build: `npm run build`
- Start: `npm run start`

You can also deploy to Vercel or any Node hosting that supports Next.js.

## Cron jobs

### Pump.fun creator fee sweep

Endpoint:

- `GET /api/cron/pumpfun-fee-sweep`
- `POST /api/cron/pumpfun-fee-sweep`

Auth:

- Header `x-cron-secret: $CRON_SECRET`, or
- Header `authorization: Bearer $CRON_SECRET`

Vercel schedule is configured in `vercel.json`.

You can run this endpoint on any scheduler (for example cronjobs.org) as long as it includes the correct `CRON_SECRET` header.

## Troubleshooting

### Campaign escrow or creator vault shows zero balance but has funds (WSOL)

**Important**: Pump.fun creator fees are paid in different forms depending on the bonding curve status:
- **Pre-bonding** (before graduation): fees are paid in native SOL
- **Post-bonding** (after graduation to Raydium): trading fees are paid in WSOL

This means creator vaults and campaign escrows may hold both native SOL and WSOL. The creator dashboard now includes WSOL balance when calculating totals. To verify funds on Solscan:
1. Check the wallet under the "Tokens" tab
2. Look for WSOL (mint: `So11111111111111111111111111111111111111112`)

### Launch fails

Common causes:

- Privy misconfiguration (missing auth key)
- RPC instability or rate limiting
- PumpPortal request failures
- Vanity pool is low (AMP mints depleted)

### Admin endpoints return 403

- Check `APP_ORIGIN` in production.
- Ensure requests originate from the correct site origin.

### Database errors

- Verify `DATABASE_URL`.
- Ensure migrations are applied.

## Security and custody

- Client wallets sign user actions (wallet adapter).
- Privy server wallets are used for specific server-side signing flows.
- Secrets must never be committed. Use `.env.local` and your hosting provider's secret store.

## Operations

See `RUNBOOK.md` for operational guidance (secrets, monitoring, incident response).
